15 August - Day 15

AWS EKS Practical Session - 3 Hours

Attended the AWS EKS practical session.
Revised the EKS cluster architecture.
Practiced how to create an EKS cluster.
Revised IAM roles required for EKS.
Revised VPC, subnet and security group concepts.
Created an EKS cluster.
Created and added a Node Group to the EKS cluster.
Checked the worker nodes and verified that they joined the cluster.
Learned how the EKS control plane and worker nodes communicate.
Practiced connecting to the EKS cluster using kubectl.
Updated kubeconfig for the EKS cluster.
Ran basic kubectl commands and checked the cluster resources.
Revised the concepts that I studied on Day 14.

Basic flow:

AWS Account -> IAM -> VPC/Subnets -> EKS Cluster -> Node Group -> kubeconfig -> kubectl

EKS Hands-On Practice - 2 Hours

Practiced creating an EKS cluster by myself.
Added a managed Node Group.
Verified the nodes using kubectl.
Created a Jump Server for accessing the EKS environment.
Connected to the Jump Server using SSH.
Configured AWS CLI on the Jump Server.
Configured kubectl on the Jump Server.
Updated kubeconfig and connected to the EKS cluster.

Practiced commands like:

kubectl get nodes
kubectl get pods
kubectl get pods -A
kubectl get deployments
kubectl get services
kubectl describe node
kubectl describe pod

Practiced checking and troubleshooting cluster resources.
Learned about the Amazon EBS CSI Driver.
Added/configured the EBS CSI Driver in the EKS cluster.
Understood why the CSI Driver is required for EBS storage.

Learned the basic storage flow:

StorageClass -> PVC -> PV -> EBS Volume

Checked the CSI Driver pods and verified that they were running.
Revised the complete flow from creating the cluster to accessing it from the Jump Server.

Hands-on flow:

Create EKS Cluster -> Add Node Group -> Create Jump Server -> SSH to Jump Server -> Configure AWS CLI/kubectl -> Update kubeconfig -> Run kubectl commands -> Add EBS CSI Driver

Speaking Practice - 30 Minutes

Practiced spoken English for 30 minutes.
Explained Amazon EKS in my own words.
Explained the EKS control plane and worker nodes.
Explained what a Node Group is.
Explained how worker nodes join the cluster.
Explained the use of IAM roles in EKS.
Explained VPC, subnets and security groups.
Explained what a Jump Server is and why we use it.
Explained how I connected to EKS through the Jump Server.
Explained what kubeconfig is.
Explained the commands I used while working with EKS.
Explained what the EBS CSI Driver is.
Explained how EBS storage works with Kubernetes.
Tried to explain the complete EKS setup without looking at notes.

Total Study Time: 5 Hours 30 Minutes